.Dd $Mdocdate: November 14 2022 $
.Dt HYPRPICKER 1
.Os Linux
.Sh NAME
.Nm hyprpicker
.Nd wlroots-compatible wayland color picker
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl nh
.Op Fl f Ar fmt
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility is a color-picker with support for various output formats.
When
.Nm
is invoked the cursor is transformed into a magnifying lens, and clicking on any
pixel of the screen will print out that pixels color to the standard output.
The default output format is hexadecimal, but that can be configured with the
.Fl f
option.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl f Ns , Fl \-format Ns = Ns Ar fmt
Select the format to output the selected pixels color in.
The available options are:
.Pp
.Bl -hang -compact
.It Ar hex
.Pq Dq #RRGGBB
.It Ar rgb
.Pq Dq R G B
.It Ar hsl
.Pq Dq H S% L%
.It Ar hsv
.Pq Dq H S% V%
.El
.Pp
The default format is
.Ar hex .
.It Fl n Ns , Fl \-no\-fancy
Disable colored output.
Default behavior is to color the output in the same color as the selected pixel.
.It Fl h Ns , Fl \-help
Display a help message and exit successfully from the program.
.El
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
.Bl -tag -width NO_COLOR
.It Ev NO_COLOR
If set, disables colored output.
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.Sh EXAMPLES
Get a pixels color:
.Pp
.Dl $ hyprpicker
.Pp
Get a pixels color in HSL, wrapped in a CSS
.Fn hsl
function:
.Pp
.Dl $ hyprpicker -f hsl | sed 's/^/rgb(/; s/$/)/; y/ /,/'
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr hyprctl 1 ,
.Xr hyprland 1 ,
.Xr sed 1
.Pp
.Lk https://github.com/hyprwm/hyprpicker "The Hyprpicker Sources"
.Sh AUTHORS
.An -nosplit
The
.Nm
utility was originally written by
.An Vaxerski Aq Lk https://github.com/vaxerski
and the manual page by
.An Thomas Voss Aq Mt mail@thomasvoss.com .
.Sh BUGS
.Lk https://github.com/hyprwm/hyprpicker/issues "The Hyprpicker Bug Tracker"
